## **April 14, 2025**

### 🤸 Attendees

- Emily Lovell, Postdoc @ UC Santa Cruz OSPO  
- Clif Kussmaul, Green Mango Associates, LLC, Bethlehem, PA  
- Steve Huss-Lederman, OED  
- Nate W. (CNCF)  
- Lance Albertson, Directory @ Oregon State University Open Source Lab  
- Grant Braught \- Dickinson College  
- 

### 🗓️ Agenda

- Welcome\!  
- Newcomer intros  
- Rapidfire ask/offer/share – requests, upcoming events, news, etc.  
- Mini-overview of mentorship work from a member  
- Progress updates  
  - OSSNA event  
    - [https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/)   
  - Event funding proposal \- Clif needs to revise, get final feedback, send to NSF people  
  - CfP submission(s)  
- Logistics updates  
  - Invites sent through June for the same time block; join mailing list to receive these  
  - Looking for volunteers to share (15 minutes) about their mentorship work at upcoming calls  
    - May 12 \- Kendall  
    - June 9 \- Grant  
    - Tyler, Emily as backups  
  - Starting next month we will try recording the 15 min presentation, but *not* the discussion, and posting those online (either for internal group use or publicly, TBD)  
  - Suggested format for short presentations  
    - Overview of your own mentorship work  
    - What’s been successful that others could learn from?  
    - What’s remained challenging that you’d welcome discussion or feedback on?

### 📝 Notes

- SIGCSE deadline coming up in June   
  - Consider collaborative paper on variety of mentorship programs, compare/contrast, etc? (like a survey/lit review of FLOSS mentorship efforts)  
  - Way to share out data across programs?  
- Steve: challenges to collecting data on an independent project due to IRB restrictions \- but would like to know more about (Tyler may be a good resource for people navigating this, based on CodeDay’s experience)  
  - Student demographics  
  - What do students find most valuable about their experience?  
  - Longitudinal data  
- Devin: Sugar Labs working with DataKind on collecting data (surveys)  
- Tyler: importance of helping students see impact of their work/broader project context \-\> Steve: make clear on project website

### 💡Action Items

- **Emily:** send out poll for final week of April to discuss SIGCSE survey paper  
- **Clif:** follow up with group about final edits and support needed on reaching out to NSF POs  
- **Nate:** follow up with group on OSSNA event details as they develop  
- **Kendall:** prep presentation for next call
