## **April 30, 2025 \- SIGCSE Paper WG**

### 🤸 Attendees

- Richard, Emily, Tyler, Clif, Steve, David, Kendall

### 📝 Notes

- SIGCSE CfP: [https://sigcse2026.sigcse.org/SIGCSETS2026CFP.pdf](https://sigcse2026.sigcse.org/SIGCSETS2026CFP.pdf)  
- Example/reference papers:  
  	\- Synthesis of e-textiles efforts: [https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3287324.3287343](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3287324.3287343)  
- Submissions:  
  - 6 page paper (+1 page references)  
  - BoF or Special Session?  
- Goals:  
  - Have something to cite in future papers, funding proposals, as evidence of our work  
  - Document our programs/work  
  - Contribute new discussion to the field on what’s been learned, areas of challenge  
- What track?  
  - Position paper probably  
- Things to cover…  
  - Position: open source affords students a number of advantages… *and* …? Unique value proposition \- offers things that students aren’t getting from more conventional classroom education  
    - Recommendations for industry, schools, etc.?   
    - What can we write that will prompt more constructive debate/discussion?  
    - Now that people are using AI for a lot of the coding pieces, open source is especially valuable preparing students for the other stuff: collaboration, etc.  
  - What programs/initiatives are out there?  
  - What is good mentoring? *(see Steve’s prior writing about mentoring best practices)*  
  - What is the impact of good mentoring on computing education? On open source projects?  
- Who wants to be heavily involved in the writing?  
  - Emily  
  - Tyler  
  - Steve (later on probably; enjoying vacation most immediately\!)  
- vs. feedback team?  
  - Richard  
  - Kendall (can also do some contribution)  
  - Grant (volunteered by Steve 🙂)  
- Timeline:  
  - Elevator pitches:  May 7  
  - Outline: May 14  
  - Abstract/conclusion: May 21  
  - Full draft: June 4 or 11  
  - Editing & Final Copy: June 18  
  - Abstract deadline: June 26  
  - Paper deadline: July 3  
  - BoF deadline: October?

### 💡Action Items

- **All**: join new Discord `#sigcse-2025` channel if you want to stay in the loop  
- **All**: add an elevator pitch below if you have ideas for what kind of paper we ought to write (maybe we’ll end up with more than one\!)


### 🛗 Elevator Pitches

- Emily   
  - Broad Pitch   
    - Open source offers a broad cross-section of new contributors (not necessarily all “students”) experiential learning that they might not receive or have access to in conventional CS settings   
    - Open source *mentorship* goes a step further, adding a layer of support in navigating skills that are hard to teach through traditional means: collaboration, communication, navigating large codebases and knowledge bases   
    - In this paper, we synthesize various programs and initiatives working to this end… followed by a discussion of commonalities/differences, strengths/challenges, and areas identified for future work  
  - I’m imagining a survey of open source mentorship efforts, categorized in some way, including…  
    - 1\. Standalone programs (GSoC, MLH Fellowship, Outreachy, CNCF and LF, CodeDay Labs)  
    - 2\. University-embedded work (maybe OED falls here since it started at a university?)  
    - 3\. University+partner work (MinT, Kendall’s OpenInfra work)  
  - Maybe we could also classify/”code” programs across some notable aspects and present this in a chart, for ex:  
    - paid vs. unpaid  
    - in person vs. remote  
    - US vs. global  
    - funding source if any  
    - eligibility criteria  
    - Duration  
    - 1-to-1 vs 1-to-many mentor-mentee pairings  
  - Discussion  
    - Discuss any known data (I believe Nate has some on CNCF’s work, Tyler may have some too)  
    - Themes, questions, etc. emerging from the above survey…?  
    - Comments on how future work might address identified challenges, or support more people doing this work (e.g. publishing best practices, a “build your own program” guide, joining forces to raise funding, etc…)  
  - *Note: this lit review on mentoring practices in OSS was published in 2024, so we should take care to make a contribution to the field that is distinct from this \-* [https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0950584924000752](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0950584924000752)
