## **June 9, 2025**

### ü§∏ Attendees

- Emily Lovell, UCSC OSPO  
- Clif Kussmaul, consultant, recovering CS professor  
- Grant Braught  
- Lance Albertson  
- Lola Egherman  
- Steve Huss-Lederman  
- David Benjamin, full-stack developer, 15 years research support at USC/ISI in the 90s, UCI ‚Äò84  
- Joss Graf  
- Wes Turner  
- Jeff Young, GT OSPO director, faculty in our HPC group

### üóìÔ∏è Agenda

- Welcome\!  
- Newcomer intros  
- Rapidfire ask/offer/share ‚Äì requests, upcoming events, news, etc. \- *Q: move to end of calls?*  
- Mini-overview of mentorship work from a member \- Grant Braught, Dickinson College  
- Progress updates  
  - ATO panel‚Ä¶ any news yet?  
  - GitHub repo  
    - Link: [https://github.com/floss-mentoring/floss-mentoring](https://github.com/floss-mentoring/floss-mentoring)  
    - Lola set up short links that we can share at events, etc.\!: [https://codeday.to/floss-m](https://codeday.to/floss-m) & [https://codeday.to/floss-mentoring](https://codeday.to/floss-mentoring)  
    - Google docs permissions now allow editing to floss-mentoring Google group members / otherwise view-only  
  - OSSNA event \- help get the word out\!  
    - [https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/)   
    - [**https://ossna2025.sched.com/event/23YvJ**](https://ossna2025.sched.com/event/23YvJ)   
    - [Discord \#ossna-2025](https://discord.com/channels/1224420736266010736/1367335595247927336)  
    - *Q: ways to spread the word?*  
  - Funding proposal for multi-day event (**Due June 15**)  
    - [https://os.nav.fund/meeting-fund/](https://os.nav.fund/meeting-fund/)   
    - [FLOSS Mentoring Open Science meeting LOI](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ybq2mjsU5J3yqtp0dNTQTqx7L8XwuRUJPcTxRSy35i4/edit?tab=t.0) (2 pages)  
    - [https://discord.com/channels/1224420736266010736/1373543824823025694](https://discord.com/channels/1224420736266010736/1373543824823025694)  
    - *Q: who will submit? do we need a call?*  
  - SIGCSE Paper WG (**Abstract due June 26; Paper due July 3**)  
    - [https://discord.com/channels/1224420736266010736/1367335658124873788](https://discord.com/channels/1224420736266010736/1367335658124873788)   
    - *Q: set up a couple of calls? June 16 & June 30?*  
- Rapidfire ask/offer/share ‚Äì requests, upcoming events, news, etc.  
  - [CodeDay](https://labs.codeday.org) needs \~20 more summer mentors (1h/week for 7 weeks, starting July 7th) to help students make their first open source contribution. Email [lola@codeday.org](mailto:lola@codeday.org) or sign up [https://codeday.org/volunteer/labs](https://codeday.org/volunteer/labs). 100% remote and flexible to your availability. *No open source experience required\! :)*

### üìù Notes

- From Grant‚Äôs presentation:   
  - Would it be helpful to have a rubric to assess projects with regard to accepting drop-in student contributors?  
    - See [TeachingOpenSource.org](http://TeachingOpenSource.org) for some learning materials along these lines  
    - Grant‚Äôs Rubrics for Project Evaluation and Selection:  
      - [https://dickinson-comp-491-492.github.io/website/assignments/PA02-ProjectExplorations.html](https://dickinson-comp-491-492.github.io/website/assignments/PA02-ProjectExplorations.html)  
      - [https://dickinson-comp-491-492.github.io/website/assignments/PA03-ProjectReviews.html](https://dickinson-comp-491-492.github.io/website/assignments/PA03-ProjectReviews.html)  
      - [https://dickinson-comp-491-492.github.io/website/assignments/PA04-ProjectSelection.html](https://dickinson-comp-491-492.github.io/website/assignments/PA04-ProjectSelection.html)  
    - Maybe we could work on a resource like ‚Äòtips for finding a mentor in open source‚Äô? (especially useful for those not in a program, class, etc.)

### üí°Action Items

- **All**: help spread the word about OSSNA unconference  
- **All**: join Discord channels for any of our projects you‚Äôre like to contribute to with deadlines on the horizon\!  
  - SIGCSE paper: [https://discord.com/channels/1224420736266010736/1367335658124873788](https://discord.com/channels/1224420736266010736/1367335658124873788)  
  - OSSNA mentoring unconference: [https://discord.com/channels/1224420736266010736/1373543824823025694](https://discord.com/channels/1224420736266010736/1373543824823025694)
