## **May 23, 2024**

### ü§∏ Attendees

- Emily Lovell, Postdoc @ UC Santa Cruz OSPO  
- Kendall Nelson, Senior Upstream Developer Advocate @ the OpenInfra Foundation  
  - I coordinate with universities and professors to get students involved in Open Source projects (usually the ones we host at the Foundation \- OpenStack, Kata Containers, StarlingX, and Zuul)  
- Jonathan Starr, NumFOCUS  
- Corey Leong, Valencia College  
- Kamila Stepniowska, NumFOCUS  
- Stephanie Lieggi, UCSC OSPO  
- Kevin Wang, Mentors in Tech

### üóìÔ∏è Agenda

- Intro & Welcome\!  
- Attendance: please add yourself above (name, role, org)  
- Discussion  
  - What brought you here?  
  - What would you like to get out of our monthly calls?  
- Planning ahead  
  - Monthly Calls  
    - Next call: faculty perspective focus  
    - Call after that:   
      - Funders  
      - OSPO perspective focus?   
      - Mentee perspective focus? Org focus? Funders \- who has the $$$?  
  - Mailing list (*has everyone received messages so far?*): [https://lists.opendev.org/mailman3/lists/floss-mentoring.lists.opendev.org/](https://lists.opendev.org/mailman3/lists/floss-mentoring.lists.opendev.org/)  
  - Discord: [https://discord.gg/eAyJsgWb](https://discord.gg/eAyJsgWb)

### üìù Notes

* What do we want to get out of monthly calls?   
  * Jonathan \- want to see mentorship programs at unis spin up as a result of coming here and our discussions; we give them the knowledge and tools or resources  
  * Emily \- identify and brainstorm around challenges (like lack of time, training)  
  * Kendall \- concrete documents that are syllabi for professors to pick up and use that don‚Äôt know where to start; instructions/advice for how to integrate with a foundation or open source community to get mentors etc  
  * Set of standardized questions to present to those on the call to gather data  
    * Introduce yourself  
    * Why are you here?  
      * What‚Äôs your angle/relationship with mentoring programs?  
        * What is your goal/what does success look like?   
    * What is a mentorship program for you?  
    * Why are you interested in mentorship programs?  
    * How do you envision a mentorship program?  
    * What do you need to help support the program or reach success? / especially: What do you need that you don‚Äôt have \- or what‚Äôs especially challenging?  
      * Why aren‚Äôt you already doing it?\!  
      * How can we help?  
  * Maybe set aside 10 min at the end of the call to decide who the next group is to target?   
    * OSPOs  
    * Instructors/Profs  
    * Mentees that have been through programs  
    * Funders  
    * Maintainers/ Open Source Communities  
    * Other Mentoring Programs \- GSOC, LFX, Outreachy, etc  
  * Open discussion at the end  
* What is the difference between teaching a course and a mentorship program?  
  * Corey \- theory versus practice; teaching a course gives the theory where mentorship gives the practical example of putting the pieces together and understand the why that you learned in the course; learning more thoroughly by doing the pull request or fixing the bug etc  
  * Jonathan \- mentorship can include the theory but is more focused on the practice  
  * Emily \- there's a difference between equipping students to contribute to an OSS and actually partnering with an organization to help make it happen ( via codeday or mint or openinfra)  
  * Corey \- finding mentors in a given community can be really challenging; ones that have time to meet weekly in particular is helpful to the students  
* Does mentorship need to be 1:1?   
  * Facilitate the creation of more organic mentorship throughout the mentorship  
  * Example of ideal outcome \- maintainer comes in to our group and we help them make a space that is more inviting to newcomers  
* Different perspectives help shape success  
  * The people on the call provide a lot of different perspectives   
    * Instructors/Professors  
    * More ecosystem focused  
    * Open Source projects  
* Talking to stakeholders \- including mentees is going to help us make sure the whole picture is included

### üí° Action Items

- **All**: complete [when2meet](https://www.when2meet.com/?25116320-whL9q) for June call by 5/29; *preferably based on your typical M-F schedule so we can set a regular meeting time going forward*  
- **All:** spread the word, invite more people to join us\!
